# interview 1

[00:00:00] **Luke:** Um, 

[00:00:07] I'm not actually going to use the video, but 

[00:00:09] this, I have to start off with the like, uh, informed consent stuff for the ethics. Um, so I just have to let you know that I'll just be using the transcript so that's going to be automatically generated by zoom and then I'm going to de-identify everything from that.

[00:00:29] So, um, so I'll protect your identity, your reputation and, and your data. Um, so yeah, I'll identify it and I'll delete anything you don't- like- you want me to delete and I won't make anything to- use anything to make you look bad. Um, and I'll delete the recordings and just keep the transcripts. Um, and yeah, you don't have to answer any questions you don't want to, you can withdraw at any time, you're under no obligation to continue.

[00:01:01] And I just have to let you know the purpose is that I'm trying to understand how people use their phones for communication, particularly instant messaging and how the technology is falling short for- for facilitating natural social interactions. Okay, cool. Um, and yeah. Are you okay with me recording the audio of this?

[00:01:21] **Participant 1:** Yes. 

[00:01:22] **Luke:** Cool. 

[00:01:23] Um, so how much do you instant message? Is it like a very frequent thing you do? 

[00:01:33] **Participant 1:** Yeah, I'd say it's a daily, a daily activity. Um, at the very least I think that my usage of, um, instant messengers, uh, fluctuates from day to day. Um, I think some days I don't, uh, I I'd say I'm anomalous in the fact that some days I don't use it that much at all.

[00:01:53] Um, whereas some days I use it heavily, um, I think I, I'm more, I'm more likely to use it outside of work, work hours and on weekends, um, because I don't use it directly for work. .

[00:02:12] **Luke:** So you don't have to use it directly for work if you just do in-person communication for work or, 

[00:02:18] **Participant 1:** yeah. So, yeah, in-person communication.

[00:02:20] Um, do a lot of emails, um, uh, do a lot of, um, like video calls, um, Uh, yeah, I mean, some, some email clients feature like, uh, instant messenger feature um, it's rarely used on my behalf. Um, I wouldn't use, I feel like instant messaging is more of a mobile thing rather than a desktop thing. So. 

[00:02:55] **Luke:** So, yeah.

[00:02:56] Okay. So you use instant messenger, more on your phone than on the desktop. 

[00:03:00] **Participant 1:** Yep. 

[00:03:02] **Luke:** And with the email, do you use that more on your desktop than your phone then? Or? 

[00:03:06] **Participant 1:** Yes. Yes. 

[00:03:07] **Luke:** Yes. Okay. Um, um, 

[00:03:13] so how long have you been like using instant messengers for like, just roughly, 

[00:03:19] **Participant 1:** roughly since 2009. 

[00:03:22] **Luke:** Yeah, that's pretty specific.

[00:03:27] **Participant 1:** I created my first Facebook account in 2009, and I was instant messaging shortly after, uh, creating that, um, Yeah. 

[00:03:39] **Luke:** Okay. So what are the, like, say you use Facebook, instant messaging. Anything else? 

[00:03:46] **Participant 1:** Yeah. Yeah. I've used ...like in general. I've used, uh, Snapchat, um, uh, Instagram, um, I've used a app called signal, um, which is a, like a private, like a encrypted messenger.

[00:04:02] Um, I have used ahh WeChat um, once or twice. Um, what else have I used? Oh, like text messages, like MMS, SMS. Um, what else?

[00:04:27] Yeah, I'd say that's the main one I have used MSN back in the day. I never had my own account on that, but I've definitely, definitely that was the O G of, of, you know, instant messaging. 

[00:04:38] **Luke:** Was that before or after the Facebook stuff? 

[00:04:40] **Participant 1:** It was before the Facebook. Yeah. I never had my own account that I'd, I'd used.

[00:04:44] I had had used the messenger before on friends accounts or, you know, people's computers that had it logged in. 

[00:04:52] **Luke:** Yeah. 

[00:04:53] So, is that at home or at friends? 

[00:04:57] **Participant 1:** Yeah. Oh, no, sorry. Yeah.I mean at a friend's home 

[00:05:00] **Luke:** Yeah, yeah, at a friend's home so okay, 

[00:05:03] **Participant 1:** Never at my own computer 

[00:05:05] **Luke:** yeah. 

[00:05:07] Um, so out of all of those, which ones, the feel, uh, you're most comfortable with or you use the most often that sort of thing?

[00:05:17] **Participant 1:** Oh yeah. So I use Facebook messenger most often. Um, So, yeah, the reason being is that I feel like it's the most commonly used one, um, throughout my friend group. Um, everybody has a Facebook account and it's easy to find and talk to people directly and quickly on that. Um, it's really simple, easy to use. Um, there's kind of no frills kind of approach to it, or at least it started off that way and they started bringing some more exciting stuff now.

[00:05:45] Um, so yeah, messenger. Yeah, it's definitely my, my mainly used one. Um, recently I've been using signal a lot. Um, uh, again, I've got a few friends that exclusively use that. Um, and that's just another means of, of messaging and I also get a bit of comfort in knowing that it's somewhat more private, um, a lot more secure, um, and.

[00:06:09] I'd say the, my favorite, if I had to say that, if I had to just communicate on one, if I had that choice so the one that I enjoy using the most is Snapchat. Um, yeah, by, by a long shot, um, I, I find it really engaging and, um, I feel like that type of messenger in parti- oh, like miss instant messaging in particular is really broken down, um, or, or gotten messaging as close as it can be to, to talking over a phone for the reason that it really emphasizes when people are live and in the chat with you, um, and, and, and really encourages, encourages interaction. Um, and yeah,

[00:07:00] so I think there's a culture of, um, on, on messaging apps, especially to use the, um, preview function in the notifications to read a message before you engage with it and I think that what that does is it takes you out of the actual conversation. It's like hearing a conversation before you've engaged in it. So you can prepare an answer and that- the process of you preparing an answer is it makes your response less genuine, um, or less in the moment.

[00:07:28] And I think that's what I like about Snapchat is that you don't have time to think about. Uh, you know, w you don't have time to craft a message. When, when someone, someone sends you a message, they see that you have not only received it, but are looking at the message and they get notified every time you start to type a, a letter.

[00:07:51] So I think it puts that pressure on you to, to really, um, You know, react as if you would, as if you were having an in-person conversation or a, or a, a phone conversation. Yeah. Okay. So, 

[00:08:03] **Luke:** uh, Snapchat has the two features, right? It's got the text. Chat and the 

[00:08:09] photo chat? 

[00:08:11] **Participant 1:** Yeah. So, yeah. So sorry, I should've clarified, I, I, uh, I was more talking about, um, the, the text chat, referring to those details.

[00:08:20] Um, obviously the, the photo chat, um, is probably still a form of instant messaging, but it's, I, I feel as though it's, um, Oh, I use it less. And, uh, and I don't think it's as it, you know, there's some, there's some parts of it there aren't aren't as, um, what's the word engaging? I mean, it's, it sounds a bit counterintuitive, though like it.

[00:08:47] **Luke:** No 

[00:08:48] **Participant 1:** it's not as fast, but that's what I'm saying. It's not as fast when, when I'm talking about getting closer to a phone call, um, the image way of chatting is not as fast, whereas the actual text writing way, the traditional messaging way is is very fast and, and, um, yeah, 

[00:09:05] **Luke:** so it's a, the speed is important.

[00:09:08] **Participant 1:** Speed. Yeah. 

[00:09:10] **Luke:** Um, yep. Okay. So, 

[00:09:13] **Participant 1:** the speed of the the interaction, I mean, I'm not, yeah, speed in like the, the back and forth, it encourages faster, back and forth, and therefore more back and forth. 

[00:09:24] **Luke:** I need to have a look at Snapchat, cause I haven't really used it. So I'm not as familiar with it. Um, That's really interesting. So, uh, how does it show that someone else is present?

[00:09:37] **Participant 1:** So it has, um, so if you open up a message, um, The couple of things happen. So, um, if you open a message, the person who sent you the message, um, they don't get notified, but unless, unless they're on the screen and a little, um, little square, will go from, from solid to, to just outlined to notify that it's been opened or something's been emptied.

[00:10:06] And, uh, and then once you start to type they will get a direct notification on their phone. Um, so that's the default notification system on Snapchat. So if you see a message and you type the word, &quot;the&quot; they'll get they'll be notified that you are you're beginning, like you're beginning to type. And if you cancel it out, that notification would drop away.

[00:10:31] And then if you start up again, they'll be notified again. So they can really be aware of how often you are. Typing and backing out of it also, if they are inside the message. So if they are within, if they're looking at the conversation at the same time that you're typing it, they have a little emoji or a little character.

[00:10:50] That's like a little caricature of yourself, usually that is present. And it looks as though it's kind of peeping on you. If that makes sense. Like it's there. I, when they exit it, their character leaves the room as well. So 

[00:11:05] **Luke:** yeah. 

[00:11:07] **Participant 1:** Um, so that, so that's, that's how they, they know when they've received or like when you, that's how you know that someone has seen your message and how they know that you're typing a message back.

[00:11:20] **Luke:** How does it feel when you see someone else is in the message with you?

[00:11:27] **Participant 1:** I think it depends who you're talking to, but, uh, I think that, um, It's like I said before, it really simulates a conversation or a phone conversation. Um, I said a phone conversation instead of in-person conversation. Cause, cause obviously you can't see- there's no non-verbal communication that can be transferred via Snapchat or phone call.

[00:11:53] And that's why I think they're probably more similar to the phone call and the messenger. Um, so yeah, no, I think it, it, it gives me a sense of urgency. Um, and it makes me, it makes me want to react. Um, w w and w makes me want to message with what my gut has to tell me or what I immediately immediately think makes me want to not se- second guess what I said.

[00:12:21] **Luke:** Okay. So is that a good thing or a bad thing, or? 

[00:12:24] **Participant 1:** I think it's a really good thing. Um, cause I think that that's, it's, it's more natural. Um, and it's, and it's more honest I think um, and, and in, and like I said before, it depends on who you talking to, but I think when you're having a conversation with your friends, um, and it's, you know, not in business setting or you might be having a conversation with a crush or something like that.

[00:12:44] I think that's, that's where you can really understand someone's personality more, or who someone is, is, is who they are off the- off the cuff. And in those moments where they don't think, you know, they're, they're, they're just being themselves. Um, as opposed to, you know, someone crafting a crafting, a message, um, that, that, that, that they've thought about, and they've kind of researched in their own brain.

[00:13:13] **Luke:** Okay. So, um, then you're saying that Snapchat is much more for social interaction with friends and rather than business 

[00:13:23] **Participant 1:** yeah, yeah. A hundred percent. I think that, I think, yeah, I think it's, you need to, I couldn't see it working well in a, in a commercial setting, um, at all, where you, where you have to be careful about, um, what, where you don't know people that, that.

[00:13:40] Well, or you don't want to get to know them in a personal manner. I think that's where you really need to tread a bit more lightly and make sure that you're, you're, um, a bit more responsible for what you talk about, what you say. 

[00:13:52] Um, also one thing I didn't mention was that, um, Snapchat has a couple of features in terms of recording the messages too. So the default setting is for the message once it's read, um, you know, it only lasts a couple of minutes and then it disappears. 

[00:14:10] If you don't reply to it immediately, there's a chance that the message disappears. And then you forget what they said. Therefore, you can't reply. So that also encourages yourself to reply back to it.

[00:14:23] Um, there is a feature where you can change it to 24 hours or, or, or you can press buttons to keep parts of the conversation. But I think it, it's kind of nice to know that just like a real conversation in real life. Once you say. Something, the, the storage of that conversation is in people's brains, not on a memory card.

[00:14:48] So I guess it helps me to get the thought of saying something wrong. There's no, if you said something embarrassing or you deal with it in real time and, and you can be comfortable and forget about that weird thing you said, because there's not this physical reminder of you mistaking you know, a maths question or something like that, you know, there's no record- well there is a record, but it's not a sort of physical record that people can refer to which is nice.

[00:15:19] **Luke:** That's like a privacy thing or, 

[00:15:22] **Participant 1:** yeah, it's definitely a privacy thing. Yeah. Yeah.

[00:15:28] **Luke:** Yeah. So it matches a real conversation 

[00:15:31] **Participant 1:** It exasperates or what's the word exasperates probably the wrong word. It 

[00:15:37] **Luke:** exacerbates 

[00:15:38] **Participant 1:** um, honesty. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's that's what I think it does. 

[00:15:44] **Luke:** Okay. That's good to know. So is this, um, when does it disappear from when you send it off from when they open it? 

[00:15:55] **Participant 1:** So when you send it, uh, like on the default settings, so you send the message, they open it and read it.

[00:16:02] I'm pretty, I'm pretty sure it, it would disappear when they leave the conversation or like within a minute or so of leaving in conversation. Um, so it's, it's very temporary. You might even be able to set time limits. I'm not sure I haven't explored that. 

[00:16:18] **Luke:** And you mentioned. Uh, other, apps you can read the message before you've shown the other person that you've read it whereas on Snapchat you don't have that option? 

[00:16:30] **Participant 1:** You don't know that option whatsoever. Um, 

[00:16:36] **Luke:** is are there times on Snapchat where you would like to be able to do that?

[00:16:46] **Participant 1:** The answer is yes. But, um, but it's only it's it's, it's out of, um, Insecurity. It's not so much I, in hindsight, but I liked, I liked the challenge of, of having to respond on the cuff. Um, and that's because I'm, you know, I'm sure everybody at times can be, especially when, you know, if they're talking to a crush or something like that, they want to, they don't.

[00:17:13] They want to make sure they're not stuffing things up, like you, there's going to be a certain level of worry about it. And, um, so of course there's times where I go. I wish I can see the message. So got a bit more time to, you know, make sure I don't say something dumb, but the whole process of that is, is, um, is the exciting part.

[00:17:39] **Luke:** I had a question, 

[00:17:42] **Participant 1:** I guess, I guess also just to reinforce maybe when you're talking to your friends, um, sometimes you're, you're in this weird kind of gray zone where you're, you're, you're not busy enough to, sorry you're, you're too busy to engage in a proper, proper conversation, but, um,

[00:18:05] But you, you, you, you, but you can also, you also have the time to, to read what they say and, and, um, and, and to see what's going on. So I think, like, for an example, for example, if, if it's an alert of some sort like, oh, hey you've left the iron on at home, or, Hey, can you please do this or that, like the kind of simple little communication things, it's, it's kind of.

[00:18:26] Helpful to be able to quickly see that or have a preview of it. So, you know, I think, yeah. Yeah. So, yeah, it definitely, um, Def definitely is times. I think there's a, there's a clear. As I'm talking, there's a clear distinction between like usage scenarios, where you might use one that can let you- an instant messenger that lets you preview text versus ones that, um, don't let you preview.

[00:18:57] **Luke:** Yeah. So, um, part of what I'm interested in is how do you try to understand the other person through the messages. Um, and particularly in terms of the state of mind, they're in, like, you're talking about that gray zone where you're sort of available, but you're not quite available for a full on conversation.

[00:19:26] Um, so maybe you're trying to message someone. And, uh, how do you know if they're in that gray zone or if they're available or if they're not available, how do you go about considering that? Do you, well, 

[00:19:44] **Participant 1:** I think that it's, it's quite hard to know. Um, I mean, Normally. So like in, in that, in that gray zone that I was talking about a, for myself in that zone at work a lot where I have the capability to respond to messages, it's not like I would be in trouble for responding to one message or, you know, um, reading a message or something.

[00:20:07] It's not like I'm too busy and physically engaged with something where I can't, um, But at the same time, it's, it's, you know, I don't want to disrupt my working patterns and I don't want to, um, you know, stop, stop what I'm doing. So it's that, that's where I get into that gray zone and then judging or trying to gauge how other people, where they are.

[00:20:29] I'd say that I wouldn't expect someone. If I knew that they, that they had a job. Or like if they had some like if they were going to uni or if they had some sort of responsibility during a certain period of the day, wouldn't expect a, a, um, full on conversation. And in those times, but you never know. So I feel like it's always a bit of a guess where you kind of just throw out a message and if someone responds a bit quicker and then, you know, oh yeah.

[00:21:00] Maybe they do have some time to, or to, to chat or if it's a bit slower then you, you think, oh, maybe they're preoccupied. Um, maybe they're in that weird spot. Um, it's, it's, it's almost impossible to know though. Um, I feel like that, you know, say on messenger, there's an, there's an active. The thing says active or inactive and tells you how long they've been like active and inactive for work that live on a chat now.

[00:21:29] But I just, I just think that, yeah, people just because people have engaged with their social, like with social media or their messenger doesn't mean that they're in the capacity to have a conversation. Um, Yeah. So short answer is I, I don't know. I don't, I just, I just whenever I have a reason to message, message, someone I'll message them and just let it, let it happen.

[00:21:56] Whether or not it's a message that goes over an hour. With multiple messages or whether or not it goes over a couple of days with a few messages in between. Um, it just really depends on everybody's schedules and the nature of the topic of the conversation or the reason for the conversation or the message.

[00:22:15] **Luke:** Yep. Yep. 

[00:22:17] Um, 

[00:22:18] **Participant 1:** did I answer that question? 

[00:22:19] **Luke:** That's right. That's, that's, uh, you've encapsulated exactly what I'm trying to help solve, which is that issue of not being sure. Um, the situation on the other end. Um, so your, your solution is to just send them a message and see how they respond to it. Um, does that, do you ever not send someone a message because you think they're busy or.

[00:22:48] **Participant 1:** Maybe it's late at night or

[00:22:54] my laptop just got all slow. And

[00:22:58] **Luke:** I think it's my internet breaking up. But, um, I was saying, this is the wonders of doing this over the internet. Um, I was saying that, um, have there ever been times where you haven't sent someone a message because you think they're not available

[00:23:20] **Participant 1:** yeah. 

[00:23:22] **Luke:** Can you walk me through the situation where that's happened?

[00:23:29] **Participant 1:** Yeah. Sure. 

[00:23:29] Um, so, um, for example, I, uh, I've, I've had, um, questions, um, or questions or things I needed to know from my, my dad, um, in regards to, car registration and bills and, and things. And I know. Um, that messaging him while he's working. So between say five o'clock and nine o'clock. Um, I know, I know that the chances of him seeing the message and returning it in any sort of timely matter is pretty low. So I tend to just not even send the message at all. Um, and then I'll I'll either call him the next day or, uh, um, just ringing him after cause looking for a more immediate response. So that's so it's, so it's less. So I feel like um conversational when I just want to talk and catch up.

[00:24:31] I would send a message, even if I thought he was busy. Um, but, but if I needed to know information or if there was something that had some sort of urgency, that's when I, I would hold back a message or, or, um, or I try to plan it a bit more meticulously. 

[00:24:49] **Luke:** Yup.

[00:24:53] That makes sense. So, 

[00:24:55] **Participant 1:** I mean, I could always just leave it there and wait for them to respond, but it's sometimes when you know that you do, like, when you know someone, sometimes you just feel like you don't want to interrupt someone. That's what you like, you know, you could leave a message there and, um, there's a chance I could get back to you while they're, while you know, they're busy, but sometimes you just don't want to do that.

[00:25:16] You sometimes you just want to let someone do their thing and then hit them up after. 

[00:25:20] **Luke:** Yeah. Um,

[00:25:26] so have you ever received a like message or notification at a time where it's inconvenient for you and you felt like you need to respond?

[00:25:41] I don't know if my internet broke up again.

[00:25:47] **Participant 1:** Sorry. Could you say that again? 

[00:25:50] **Luke:** I was just saying, um, so you, you don't want to message other, uh, other people when you think they're busy, have you ever been messaged when your busy.

[00:26:03] **Participant 1:** Yeah. Yeah. I'd definitely, definitely been, um, message when I'm busy. Um, not just at work, but say I'm, um, the gathering or, uh, a function, not function, but like social events that, that requires me or sporting, then that requires me to be close to a hundred. percent, you know in person and there's not many chances for me to, to drop off my, to my phone.

[00:26:29] So obviously it'd be in my pocket and I'll know the messages there. I might see a message preview, but my ability to, to shut down a current conversation or, or to, to, um, to leave that social circle or something. Um, and then go and engage in something else or reply to it's pretty, pretty hard. And the chances of me doing that is pretty low unless it was urgent.

[00:26:51] Yup. Yup. 

[00:26:53] **Luke:** Yup. So how does it affect it if it's a Snapchat message versus a Facebook message? 

[00:27:02] **Participant 1:** Yeah, that's that's the issue is, um, I feel like the quality of. So, yeah, so I, I feel like I, if it was a Snapchat message, I wouldn't go, I wouldn't even, I wouldn't even read it. I don't, I don't think that I'd even like, if I, if I was busy, I wouldn't even slightly give it a.

[00:27:25] Uh, read, um, like I said before, the chance of it dropping away and me forgetting about what it is, um, it's also a chance of sending a signal to someone that I'm actively not responding to them, or I'm neglecting a message, which I don't think that's even if it's honest, it's, it's never, never a good signal to receive from someone else.

[00:27:46] I think though, it's never a positive signalthat's what I'm trying to say. 

[00:27:52] **Luke:** You mean that when you read it and then you don't reply to it, you're sending them a signal that...

[00:27:56] **Participant 1:** Reply, Yeah. It's just sending me a signal that you, you don't, you feel as though something else is more important to do or at that time, I even, even though like, like I said, it's, it's, I wouldn't say it's positive.

[00:28:15] It's it can be neutral because someone can be, oh yeah. He's, he's seen it and he's busy, but then some people can take it the wrong way and go, oh, he's shunning me or he's ignoring me, ghosting me. Um, whereas yeah, messenger, I think that that's where the preview comes in nicely is that, um, you know, you can gauge that quicker, but, um, Yeah, I think then if I was to reply on a, if I were to open up a Snapchat message and reply on that, then it would be, um, it would be as less it'd be, should probably be more short, more short, or I would I be forced to tell someone that I'm busy

[00:28:54] whereas on messenger, I'll never tell someone that I- like the process of telling someone you're busy is not replying, whereas on Snapchat, you'd actually have to be like, Hey, I'm busy. I'll reply later.

[00:29:10] Um, 

[00:29:14] **Luke:** so do you ever feel the pressure to respond to that then? If you get a message when you're busy, do you feel like you have to respond to it sometimes.

[00:29:32] **Participant 1:** Just on any platform form, uh? 

[00:29:34] **Luke:** yeah. One on either of them really. I mean, you said you don't preview the Snapchat ones. 

[00:29:40] **Participant 1:** I definitely, I think that a lot of messages, um, the nature or messages give you gives you a small feeling of I should respond to this. Um, and I think that it's, you've got to, yeah, you're constantly making decisions on whether or not you will, or you won't or, and, and yeah, obviously that it's all just affected by what you're doing at the time, but then also.

[00:30:03] About the nature of the relationship with the person. Um, if it's, if it's a good friend of yours or you, you know, you know, you know, someone that you you're confident that they know how you operate or what you're doing, then, um, then you, you feel more comfortable with not the, the pressure of actually responding when you can't is a lot lower, because you feel like that, that they have got the capacity to understand that you can't message back at that time.

[00:30:28] Whereas if it's someone unknown and then yeah, the pressure is higher because you're like, well, this person doesn't know me yet. Um, I don't think they understand, you know, But even, yeah, I think, yeah, the answer is yes. Yeah. You do everybody. I think everybody would feel a little bit of pressure, no matter who the person is, messaging them to respond.

[00:30:50] There's that's the nature of it. It's a, it's a it's, it's a, uh, it's communicating it's um, it's I feel it's, it just feels unhuman to, to not respond to someone or not respond to something. Yeah. Um, 

[00:31:08] **Luke:** So you mentioned that the email, um, that you use emails for business communication, more than instant messaging.

[00:31:16] **Participant 1:** Yeah.

[00:31:18] **Luke:** Um, is there any particular reason, like you did mention that the desktop versus mobile aspect where you use the email or on the desktop, is that the main reason? Like if you had Facebook messenger on your desktop computer, would you, why would you not use that instead of email with your business colleagues?

[00:31:43] **Participant 1:** So I, I, I think the, the joy of email is that it's kind of. It's like a dated technology that kind of suits the working lifestyle for the reason that it takes longer to write an email. So when you do write an email, it's going to be something important. It kind of means that it, you, you're going to think twice before writing it.

[00:32:06] Um, you can think a bit more about it, um, because essentially everybody's time, is there the biggest commodity and, uh, you know, If you're going to invest time in writing an email to somebody, then it's going to be like a good question or a worthy response. It kind of slows down the communication makes it less frequent, but makes it more, more decision orientated and meaningful sometimes.

[00:32:33] Um, and it also prevents you from getting distracted as easily as it does messenger. Um, and. Yeah. So I, I just, I just think that if Facebook messenger was used for, for work or a messaging was used in a more commercial setting, then people, I think people would have a tendency, um, especially between like low, lower level workers and management level workers, just to, just to be using it too often and not thinking for themselves

[00:33:07] um, and, and, and make it harder for someone. I think that in a business environment, responding to people, um, probably there's the pressure of responding to a person that's related to your job is much higher than a friend, um, because you're literally being paid to do it. So if someone had the pressure of responding instantly by a messenger, um, in a business setting, I think that it'd cause all sorts of havoc on your, on your productivity, and your workflow, because, you know, You need to, you need to prioritize your time and segment it.

[00:33:41] And if that pressure's there to to reply to an instant messenger. And as I'm saying this, I don't, I feel like, ah, I don't know. I'm not sure why, but emails are way easier to ignore

[00:33:59] and it could com- it could be completely because there's no read receipts on emails or there is, but there's, most people don't have them. 

[00:34:12] **Luke:** Okay. Yeah. Okay. I didn't realize that they were - it's possible to have read receipts on emails. 

[00:34:19] **Participant 1:** Yeah. It's a, the only reason I know that is because obviously working in marketing and doing a bit of email marketing there's programs that you can get that whenever someone opens up your email, it alerts you and then it will like in like, what's the word?

[00:34:38] It can show you a like, live, live results on how people are interacting with your email so they can send you an email or tell you when they open it, when they click on something, um, on, on certain buttons. And when they did it, how, like how long after you sent the email, they did it. So, um, yeah. 

[00:34:56] **Luke:** Okay. That's interesting.

[00:34:58] Um, so that's even when they just open the email, it's not even when they click on anything inside of.

[00:35:05] **Participant 1:** Yeah. When as soon as I open it, you can, you can be notified that that person has opened up your email. 

[00:35:11] **Luke:** But, um, okay. So you're saying there's, there's a, it's easier to ignore an email because there's not as much time pressure as for an instant message.

[00:35:24] **Participant 1:** Yeah, well, there's no real way of someone. I mean, even though you can, on the most part, there is not, there's no way for people to know that you've opened up the message, so there's time and, and it, and it takes longer to, to write as well. Like if you've got to use certain formalities and 

[00:35:44] **Luke:** yeah, so people generally will write longer messages in emails than they will on for instance, that Facebook messenger?

[00:35:53] **Participant 1:** Yeah. 

[00:35:55] **Luke:** Um, and you said people get distracted more easily on instant messenger than over email?

[00:36:05] **Participant 1:** Yeah. Cause I think the barrier to communication is lower on an instant messenger. Um, and it's more like a con- like more like a phone conversation. Um, So therefore it demands more urgency and it demands a bigger pressure to respond.

[00:36:27] **Luke:** Um, I'm aware that I'm taking up a fair bit of time. 

[00:36:32] Um, I think like I could probably just do 

[00:36:36] **Participant 1:** Do you want to carry this over on messenger? 

[00:36:39] **Luke:** Haha, maybe email. 

[00:36:42] **Participant 1:** Snapchat!

[00:36:45] **Luke:** Yeah. There's a lot. There's a lot that could be done in this space. Um, so it's hard for me. Sort of narrow down too much, um, especially because it's really interesting to see how other people, um, deal with these things, because it seems like it's on a pretty individual basis. Like you're saying you have to sort of understand other people and their particular habits and the way they react to messages when they're busy or, um,

[00:37:22] **Participant 1:** Yeah, it's interesting. 

[00:37:26] **Luke:** Sorry, you go. 

[00:37:26] **Participant 1:** Oh I was gonna say it's interesting you say that because I find, uh, you know, when I've talked to a lot of people about messaging, I find... I find that for me personally, messages are a bigger burden than to me than most people in terms of, I feel a lot more pressure on a message than some people.

[00:37:49] I know some people that feel absolutely no pressure at all on messages. So they don't not only do they have a pressure to respond, but they like, they don't, they don't feel pressure, pressure to respond and they don't. Um, they don't worry about what that they they or how they message, the way that they've communicated is consistent across all mediums.

[00:38:11] Whereas I don't think it's consistent. I don't think I'm consistent with the way. I think I'm a much more formal and well thought out and longer via email, um, Snapchat is more off the cuff and then Facebook's uh kind of in-between that, uh, I think that I've definitely come across people that are very consistent across all of them.

[00:38:31] Um, so I do, I do agree that it's very, it's extremely individual. Um, 

[00:38:40] **Luke:** how does that affect it? Does that make it more difficult or easier or, um,

[00:38:49] Let me rephrase that, maybe. It's a very individual thing, but you also have these different ways of communicating with people, right? You could email them, or you could send them a message on Facebook messenger, or you could send them a Snapchat. Does that, um, help you solve that issue at all? Do you, would you choose to send someone a message on Snapchat versus Facebook messenger, for example, because of the differences? 

[00:39:26] **Participant 1:** So are you saying, would I choose a different platform depending on the person or the situation? 

[00:39:32] **Luke:** No, I'm saying. If you want it to message the same person, uh, this one particular person, would you choose a different platform? Um, depending on how you wanted the conversation to go, like, if you didn't want them to be able to read your message without responding to you without you knowing, would you send it to them on Snapchat, sort of thing, is that how it works or is that missing something? 

[00:40:02] **Participant 1:** Um,

[00:40:08] No, I think it's.

[00:40:15] I don't know. I would say that I would say that like, and I guess it depends on the type of situation. Yeah, yeah. So, yes. Yeah. Like I would, I would, if I wanted to have a fun and exciting conversation with someone, um, you know, discreetly more discreetly than a phone call or a video call then I'd choose Snapchat.

[00:40:38] And then if I wanted to. Be more direct and informational, or more serious, then I'd probably choose messenger, but umm not exclusively. Like I still have fun conversations on messenger as well. Um, I just don't think it encourages it as much as the Snapchat does. Um, 

[00:41:01] **Luke:** do you have.

[00:41:05] I guess I sort of assumed in that question that you have the same people that you were talking to over Snapchat as over Facebook messenger.

[00:41:16] **Participant 1:** Yeah. I mean, sure. There's crossover, but it's a little bit different. Yeah. 

[00:41:21] **Luke:** So it's, um, most, most of the people are sort of separated and there's only a few who are share both or.

[00:41:37] Um,

[00:41:43] Yeah, that's alright. Um, I think that's, I think that's good. I, I could probably keep going, but I do need to figure things out a bit more first before I ask any more questions. Cause there's a lot of other things . Thanks very much.

